
## Will
Only real difference from planned project activities for me was that all the
construction happened a lot later than was originally planned due to weird noise
in testing that turned out not to be an issue at all.

## Johns
The activities carried out were different from the planned ones due to a change
of plan for how firmware updates were done. It was decided to send only
precompiled binaries to the Raspberry Pi to be uploaded to the MCU, instead of
sending C++ source files that needed to be compiled by the Pi. This meant there
was no need to install the mbed CLI tools on the Raspberry Pi, freeing up
Wednesday and Thursday.  The appearance of the timing glitch on Monday with the
new MCU board meant time had to be dedicated to fixing that. Although this
increased the number of hours worked on the project, it did not hold up the
project as the other subsystems were not ready for integration at that point.
The testing of the buffer MCU in the system was delayed until the last Monday
due to the other subsystems not being ready. This left no time to troubleshoot
any issues.

## Francis
it took longer to get file management for the interfaces working than expected,
and but making the test data script was faster than expected

## Matt
The two primary causes for the differences between planned and actual activities
were the much higher than expected workload for software debugging and Raspberry
Pi permissions handling/workarounds and the lack of requirement in the hardware
construction area.

When the time came for constructing the hardware, it quickly became apparent
that there were plenty of team members taking responsibility of the construction
and hence an extra pair of hands were not required and would have in fact slowed
the process, as there were only so many solder stations and only so many
circuits to be soldered at any one time.

This allowed for more time to debug the PHP and bash that made up the web
servers front and back end. PHP can, at times, be difficult to debug as often
the errors and warnings you need to see are either not displayed, are difficult
to find, or do not provide sufficient information. As a novice PHP user (this
project is my first time using PHP) this provided at times a difficult
challenge.

There were also several permissions problems that had to be overcome by either
workarounds or by changing the permissions.

Finally, due to dynamic test data not being available from the back-end until
the final Monday, dynamic real-time graphs and displays were not able to be
programmed until the very end of the project. This stemmed from poor
communication between the web side and the back-end.

## Tom
On Friday for the first week of project, I also done the testing for my code.
On Wednesday for the second week, I teach Carol how to use the equipments in the lab. 
On Monday for the third week, I assist and give some suggestion for hardware debugging.
