# Web Module
The web module is primarily centered around a locally accessible web interface where the user will be able to view precise sensor data as well as update the devices firmware among other device controls.

The interface is hosted on an Apache web server installed on the Raspberry Pi, the web server allows the interface to be accessible by any browser on the same LAN, ensuring wide yet more secure accessibility (no access to internet). The front-end interface is implemented using a combination of HTML, JavaScript and PHP. HTML serves as the skeleton of the web interface, providing the site header and body. UI elements are written in JavaScript to more easily create good looking, user friendly UI. A simple and effective design will give a positive user experience. The central JavaScript UI element will be a radar-like display that will show the angle of received audio on a line along the radius of the circle, the intensity of the audio will be visualised by the thickness of the line. Precise telemetry data will be displayed on a log below the radar display, to give a precise output for measurement purposes. An additional UI element will display the FFT of received audio. PHP scripting will be utilised to facilitate file uploads to the web server and to initiate user-initiated commands by triggering Python scripts.

Uploaded files will be checked by the script for the correct file extension and file size for security purposes, adding security against potential breaches as other filetypes will be prevented from being uploaded. In addition to this the firmware will include checksums which the back-end will verify, ensuring only genuine firmware can be installed on the device. The user interface will also include additional controls to calibrate and reboot the system, these controls will be written in PHP that will trigger back-end Python that will perform the desired tasks.

The back-end of the web server will handle data input from the algorithmic back-end as well as provide firmware distribution and system control via Python scripts. Input data will be interpreted and then passed to the JS elements for display.
